readme.md, before:

# Port Domain Servece
Client and server test sample with gRPC streaming and REST functionality. Sample features:
 - REST service.
 - gRPC service.
 - uniform code style with documentation.
 - errors checking at all source code points.
 - domain driven design.
 - single application configuration.
 - safely servers start and graceful shutdown.

## Source code structure

### client

 - `main.go` is file with main function only, contains workflow functions calls.
 - `workflow.go` contains functions for initialization, starts of services, wait for break, and finalization function with graceful shutdown of services.
 - `config.go`, all settings of application are collected into single structure with single initialization. This singleton can be streamed into JSON or YAML file.
- `router.go` have a routing for HTTP-server, and some auxiliary functions for HTTP handlers.
- `handlers.go` contains the list of HTTP handlers and error codes for them.
- `readfile.go` reads `port.json` file with predefined data format, and sends items step-by-step to gRPC server. File does not limited by size.
- `envfmt.go` have helper function to expand environment variables in the file path.

### server

 - `main.go` is file with main function only, contains workflow functions calls.
 - `workflow.go` contains functions for initialization, starts of services, wait for break, and finalization function with graceful shutdown of services.
 - `config.go`, all settings of application are collected into single structure with single initialization. This singleton can be streamed into JSON or YAML file.
 - `grpcserv.go` have gRPC interface implementation for server.

### pds
Here is `pds.proto` with gRPC interface declaration, and files produced by protobuf compiler.

## How to build

 1. At first, install [Golang](https://golang.org/) minimum 1.13 version, or latest. Requires that [GOPATH is set](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#GOPATH).
 2. [Download](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/README.md#protocol-compiler-installation) and install protocol buffer compiler.
 3. Fetch golang `grpc` library and compile protocol buffer compiler plugins.
```batch
go get -u google.golang.org/grpc
go get -u google.golang.org/protobuf
go get -u google.golang.org/genproto
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go
```
Another way to get `grpc` source code and its dependencies if there is no access to `golang.org` is git repositories cloning:
```batch
git clone https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/grpc
git clone https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf-go.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/protobuf
git clone https://github.com/googleapis/go-genproto.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/genproto
git clone https://github.com/golang/protobuf.git %GOPATH%/src/github.com/golang/protobuf
git clone https://github.com/golang/text.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/text
git clone https://github.com/golang/net.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/net
git clone https://github.com/golang/sys.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/sys
```
 4. Fetch this source code and compile application.
```batch
go get github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds
go install -v github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds/server
go install -v github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds/client
```
 5. Run server and then client.

## REST API

Arguments of all API calls placed as JSON-objects at request body. Replies comes also only as JSON-objects in all cases.

Errors come on replies with status >= 300 as objects like `{"what":"some error message","when":1613251727492,"code":3}` where `when` is Unix time in milliseconds of error occurrence, `code` is unique error source point code.

### Store port object `/api/port/set`
Store port object to database, or replace with existing key (that placed in `unlocs` field of object).
```batch
curl -d "{\"name\":\"Dubai\",\"city\":\"Dubai\",\"country\":\"United Arab Emirates\",\"coordinates\":[55.27,25.25],\"province\":\"Dubayy [Dubai]\",\"timezone\":\"Asia/Dubai\",\"unlocs\":[\"AEDXB\"],\"code\":\"52005\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/set

{"value":"AEDXB"}
```
### Get port object by key `/api/port/get`
Returns port object with given associated key.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"AEDXB\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/get

{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"}
```
### Get port object by name `/api/port/name`
Returns port object with given name. It's looking for port with strict name match.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"Dubai\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/name

{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"}
```
### Find nearest port `/api/port/near`
Finds nearest Port to given coordinates. Recieves `Point` with searching latitude and longitude and returns port with nearest coodinates to given point. Be considered that at port coordinates first value is longitude, second value is latitude.

```batch
curl -d "{\"latitude\":25.873280,\"longitude\":55.011377}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/near

{"name":"Umm al Qaiwain","city":"Umm al Qaiwain","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.55,25.57],"province":"Umm Al Quwain","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEQIW"]}
```
### Find ports in circle `/api/port/circle`
Finds all ports in given circle. Circle determined by latitude/longitude point of center, and radius in meters.
```batch
curl -d "{\"center\":{\"latitude\":25.458155,\"longitude\":55.148621},\"radius\":40000}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/circle

{"list":[{"name":"Sharjah","city":"Sharjah","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.38,25.35],"province":"Ash Shariqah [Sharjah]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AESHJ"],"code":"52070"},{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Ajman","city":"Ajman","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.513645,25.405216],"province":"Ajman","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEAJM"],"code":"52000"},{"name":"Port Rashid","city":"Port Rashid","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27565,25.284756],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEPRA"],"code":"52005"}]}
```
### Find ports with text `/api/port/text`
Finds all ports each of which contains given text in one of the fields: name, city, province, country. Field `sensitive` of argument makes search case sensitive; `whole` matches entire string. Returns list of founded ports if it has.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"dubai\",\"whole\":true}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/text

{"list":[{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Port Rashid","city":"Port Rashid","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27565,25.284756],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEPRA"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Jebel Ali","city":"Jebel Ali","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.02729,24.985714],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEJEA"],"code":"52051"}]}
```

---
(c) schwarzlichtbezirk, 2021.

Commit message:

fix to dockerfile; SERVERHOST environment variable added.

readme.md, after:

# Port Domain Servece
Client and server test sample with gRPC streaming and REST functionality. Sample features:
 - REST service.
 - gRPC service.
 - uniform code style with documentation.
 - errors checking at all source code points.
 - domain driven design.
 - single application configuration.
 - safely servers start and graceful shutdown.

## Source code structure

### client

 - `main.go` is file with main function only, contains workflow functions calls.
 - `workflow.go` contains functions for initialization, starts of services, wait for break, and finalization function with graceful shutdown of services.
 - `config.go`, all settings of application are collected into single structure with single initialization. This singleton can be streamed into JSON or YAML file.
- `router.go` have a routing for HTTP-server, and some auxiliary functions for HTTP handlers.
- `handlers.go` contains the list of HTTP handlers and error codes for them.
- `readfile.go` reads `port.json` file with predefined data format, and sends items step-by-step to gRPC server. File does not limited by size.
- `envfmt.go` have helper function to expand environment variables in the file path.

### server

 - `main.go` is file with main function only, contains workflow functions calls.
 - `workflow.go` contains functions for initialization, starts of services, wait for break, and finalization function with graceful shutdown of services.
 - `config.go`, all settings of application are collected into single structure with single initialization. This singleton can be streamed into JSON or YAML file.
 - `grpcserv.go` have gRPC interface implementation for server.

### pds
Here is `pds.proto` with gRPC interface declaration, and files produced by protobuf compiler.

## How to build

 1. At first, install [Golang](https://golang.org/) minimum 1.13 version, or latest. Requires that [GOPATH is set](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#GOPATH).
 2. [Download](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/README.md#protocol-compiler-installation) and install protocol buffer compiler.
 3. Fetch golang `grpc` library and compile protocol buffer compiler plugins.
```batch
go get -u google.golang.org/grpc
go get -u google.golang.org/protobuf
go get -u google.golang.org/genproto
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go
```
Another way to get `grpc` source code and its dependencies if there is no access to `golang.org` is git repositories cloning:
```batch
git clone https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/grpc
git clone https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf-go.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/protobuf
git clone https://github.com/googleapis/go-genproto.git %GOPATH%/src/google.golang.org/genproto
git clone https://github.com/golang/protobuf.git %GOPATH%/src/github.com/golang/protobuf
git clone https://github.com/golang/text.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/text
git clone https://github.com/golang/net.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/net
git clone https://github.com/golang/sys.git %GOPATH%/src/golang.org/x/sys
```
 4. Fetch this source code and compile application.
```batch
go get github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds
go install -v github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds/server
go install -v github.com/schwarzlichtbezirk/grpc-pds/client
```
 5. Run server and then client.

## Connections

Ports thats used at network are defined in configuration of server and client (see files `config.go`).

Server opens port `50051` and `50052` by default, and it can be a list for load balancing.

Client creates one connection to gRPC server on port `50052` by default. Host can be defined by environment variable `SERVERHOST`, and if it not defined or empty, `localhost` is used. Also client opens `8008` port by default to listen for incoming connections to serve REST API, and it can be a list for load balancing.

## REST API

Arguments of all API calls placed as JSON-objects at request body. Replies comes also only as JSON-objects in all cases.

Errors come on replies with status >= 300 as objects like `{"what":"some error message","when":1613251727492,"code":3}` where `when` is Unix time in milliseconds of error occurrence, `code` is unique error source point code.

### Store port object `/api/port/set`
Store port object to database, or replace with existing key (that placed in `unlocs` field of object).
```batch
curl -d "{\"name\":\"Dubai\",\"city\":\"Dubai\",\"country\":\"United Arab Emirates\",\"coordinates\":[55.27,25.25],\"province\":\"Dubayy [Dubai]\",\"timezone\":\"Asia/Dubai\",\"unlocs\":[\"AEDXB\"],\"code\":\"52005\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/set

{"value":"AEDXB"}
```
### Get port object by key `/api/port/get`
Returns port object with given associated key.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"AEDXB\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/get

{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"}
```
### Get port object by name `/api/port/name`
Returns port object with given name. It's looking for port with strict name match.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"Dubai\"}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/name

{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"}
```
### Find nearest port `/api/port/near`
Finds nearest Port to given coordinates. Recieves `Point` with searching latitude and longitude and returns port with nearest coodinates to given point. Be considered that at port coordinates first value is longitude, second value is latitude.

```batch
curl -d "{\"latitude\":25.873280,\"longitude\":55.011377}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/near

{"name":"Umm al Qaiwain","city":"Umm al Qaiwain","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.55,25.57],"province":"Umm Al Quwain","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEQIW"]}
```
### Find ports in circle `/api/port/circle`
Finds all ports in given circle. Circle determined by latitude/longitude point of center, and radius in meters.
```batch
curl -d "{\"center\":{\"latitude\":25.458155,\"longitude\":55.148621},\"radius\":40000}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/circle

{"list":[{"name":"Sharjah","city":"Sharjah","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.38,25.35],"province":"Ash Shariqah [Sharjah]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AESHJ"],"code":"52070"},{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Ajman","city":"Ajman","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.513645,25.405216],"province":"Ajman","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEAJM"],"code":"52000"},{"name":"Port Rashid","city":"Port Rashid","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27565,25.284756],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEPRA"],"code":"52005"}]}
```
### Find ports with text `/api/port/text`
Finds all ports each of which contains given text in one of the fields: name, city, province, country. Field `sensitive` of argument makes search case sensitive; `whole` matches entire string. Returns list of founded ports if it has.
```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"dubai\",\"whole\":true}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/text

{"list":[{"name":"Dubai","city":"Dubai","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27,25.25],"province":"Dubayy [Dubai]","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEDXB"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Port Rashid","city":"Port Rashid","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.27565,25.284756],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEPRA"],"code":"52005"},{"name":"Jebel Ali","city":"Jebel Ali","country":"United Arab Emirates","coordinates":[55.02729,24.985714],"province":"Dubai","timezone":"Asia/Dubai","unlocs":["AEJEA"],"code":"52051"}]}
```

```batch
curl -d "{\"value\":\"miam\",\"whole\":false}" -X POST localhost:8008/api/port/text

{"list":[{"name":"Miami","city":"Miami","country":"United States","coordinates":[-80.19179,25.76168],"province":"Florida","timezone":"America/New_York","unlocs":["USMIA"],"code":"5201"}]}
```

---
(c) schwarzlichtbezirk, 2021.
